Reviewer #2 (Public review): 

 This is an interesting study aiming to capture the fundamental principles of ATPase-like machines with an elementary model of rigid bars. While molecular motors have been the subject of many studies in statistical physics, taking very simplified approaches, these past studies generally abstract away from geometrical constraints and do not account for allosteric mechanisms. In turn, several simple physical models of allostery are now available, but most consider only long-range effects without reference to reactivity or the conversion of chemical to mechanical energy. The essential ingredient of the present model is a form of negative allostery that stems from geometrical constraints. These constraints impose the presence of hidden microstates and the connections between states that form a reaction network. Nontrivial tradeoffs can then be derived, e.g., on the catalytic rate.

 One limitation of the approach is that energetic constraints, which are equally important, are not themselves derived from physical principles. This includes the different kinetic rates, the binding constants, and the mechanisms of reactivity, even though, in principle, they should follow from basic interaction energies in the context of thermal fluctuations. This is a legitimate choice of modeling level, handled notably by imposing a hierarchy between rates. It would be appreciated, however, if the overall logic of the derivation were clarified, presenting more clearly from the beginning what the fundamental hypotheses of the model are, which aspects are derived from these hypotheses, and which require additional assumptions. It seems indeed that the model involves both fundamental physical assumptions that are used to derive some emerging kinetic features (e.g., geometry imposes futile cycles) and global kinetic assumptions that are used to derive some microscopic features (e.g., a productive cycle imposes the relative values of the kinetic rates).

 The conclusion ends with a proposal to generalize to more elaborate models. I was wondering, however, if the opposite would not be desirable. The current model is already quite involved (as the 7 pages of SI listing transitions between states testify). Wouldn't it be possible to obtain some of the main results, e.g., the trade-offs defining an optimal cleavage rate, from an even simpler model?
