Reviewer #3 (Public review): 

 Summary:

 In "Design of a minimal, allosteric, and ATPase-like machine using mechanical linkage," Omabegho introduces a simplified model of an allosterically-regulated molecular machine. The model machine takes inspiration from simple ATPase motors, specifically myosin or dynein, and is meant to capture the interactions between enzyme, ligand, and substrate that empower these enzymatic biomolecular machines. The model system attempts to specifically model the inhibitory allosteric regulation relevant to machine operation, following work on mechanical features of allostery in protein-analogue elastic network models. After the introduction of the model machine, the manuscript discusses the primary cycle by which the substrate serves to displace and then cyclically replace the ligand (roughly corresponding to a "recovery" and "power" stroke, respectively, in their biomolecular machine inspiration), as well as cataloguing other futile cycles or individual chemical pathways the machine may traverse. After an exhaustive enumeration of all possible states and transitions of the model machine, the actual mechano-chemical system is mapped to an abstracted stochastic chemical reaction network, which is finally studied numerically in more detail. We believe this model system is novel, interesting, and, importantly, interpretable and could prove to be useful in future modeling and rational design of simple bio-mimetic nanoscopic systems.

 Strengths:

 (1) Omabegho introduces a novel chemo-mechanical model system that captures the core behavior of a simple ATPase molecular machine. The model is relatively simple in construction, but, as the manuscript demonstrates, it can display very rich behavior depending on various competing chemical timescales and mechanisms. These features suggest that this system could, in fact, serve as a useful starting model if adopted by the wider community.

 (2) A key feature to highlight is the mechanistic interpretability of the model. By cutting to the seemingly core functional details of an ATPase-like machine, Omebegho is able to algorithmically produce an exhaustive listing of all allowed chemical states and all possible transitions between them, enabling the study of all possible mechanistic pathways and the relative frequency of each observed path. Further, Omebegho produced very clear visualizations of these states, transitions, pathways, and cycles that again facilitate the interpretability and utility of the model. This interpretability is key to our suggestion that this model could be more widely adopted as a clear ATPase analogue model for study by the broader biophysical community.

 Weaknesses:

 There are some issues to note.

 (1) First, although the model is inspired by ATPases, the cycle in question is not a model even for the significantly abstracted form presented in Supplemental Section 1.1, as noted in the manuscript. The allosteric regulation utilized in the model does not mandate that the ligand (a stand-in for actin, for example) displaces both products (stand-ins for ADP and P). Rather, one product (P) dissociates spontaneously, and the other, larger one (ADP) is allosterically displaced. We recognize mandating this small further detail would presumably complexify the model (i.e., it may require an additional tile in the enzyme construction), but it would also lead to a more accurate, while still simple and interpretable, picture of the biological molecular machines in question.

 (2) Much as we recognize and applaud the model's structure as simple and interpretable, when trying to actually study the chemical dynamics and observed dynamical behaviors, individual chemical rates of various binding and unbinding processes appear to be quite finely tuned. There is some attempt at studying the behavior of this model in various parameter tuning regimes, but the large number of model parameters makes a truly complete numerical study prohibitive. Given this difficulty, it would be instructive to know if a comparison could be made to the actual motivating biological systems and any observed chemical rates in the experiment. Further, given the desired cyclic behavior, it would be quite interesting to see to what degree this behavior is robust to various parameter choices. Again, preliminary work was done in the manuscript by biasing rates or numerical siloing experiments, but a far more exhaustive study is certainly worthwhile.

 (3) Perhaps our biggest critique of the manuscript is that, although it incorporates both mechanical and chemical aspects into the model system construction, all mechanical aspects of the model simply function to limit allowed state transitions. From our understanding, all mechanical aspects of the model are, in fact, abstracted away during any simulations. This modeling choice, of course, retains some mechanical inspiration while making the resulting system more tractable, but it is ultimately not an actual mechanical model. ATPases, especially motors such as myosin and dynein, are inherently mechanical, their fundamental features being the conversion of chemical fuel into mechanical motion. A fuller treatment, perhaps in future work, should include these physical degrees of freedom in simulation, thus truly tracking the interplay between physical enzyme mechanics and chemistry. The absence of actual mechanics as yet, beyond a strict allosteric restriction, is an inherent limitation of the model.
